
=head1 Bootstrapping the Content of EFS

This document will describe how to bootstrap the content of the EFS
namespace, by installing and configuring the efsdeploy utility, and
then using that to build and deploy the C compilers, perl, and the
various dependencies of EFS.

=head1 Initial Requirements

If it is not obvious, you must first complete the procedures
documented in the Server and Client bootstrap documents.

=head2 efsops vs root

Note that all of the procedures documented here are run as the efsops
user.  Installing content into /efs never requires root access, and in
fact, by design, root does not have write permission on the /efs
namespace on the EFS clients.  Direct use of root is only necessary
during the server and client bootstrap processes.

=head2 Bootstrapping vs "Porting"

If you are bootstrapping the content for a new EFS domain using
existing, supported EFS client platforms, then you can use the
efs_bootstrap_content script.

If you are "porting" content to a new set of EFS client platforms,
then you will need to follow the procedures documented in the DevGuide
documentation on porting content, since you will need to build the
components of the /efs/dist namespace from scratch.  See:

L<http://docs.openefs.org/efs-core-docs/DevGuide/Porting/Content.html>

=head1 Running efs_bootstrap_content

As the efsops user, run the following script form the efs-core source
tree.

    ./util/efs_bootstrap_content

By default, this will download content from

    http://ftp.openefs.org/packages/binary

But this can be overridden in the bootstrap.conf file:

    [content]
        download_url = .....

This script will configure a set of metaprojs defined in:

    $download_url/bootstrap/metaprojs.txt

and then download the releases (and all of thier dependencies) defined in:

    $download_url/bootstrap/releases.txt

Once this script completes, you will have releases of:

    efs/core/dev
    efs/deploy/dev

that can be run from /efs/dist, with almost no dependencies on locally
installed operating system software.

=cut
